src/content/docs/first-time/5-larger-contributions.mdx, before:

---
title: Larger contributions
description: How to make larger contributions to Astro Docs with a fork of the project.
---

[Editing a single page on GitHub.com](/first-time/4-edit-single-page/) is convenient for small text changes, but does not allow you to see a live preview of the site while you are working. It also does not let you easily edit multiple files at once, such as a guide and a reference page or a sidebar entry.

## Contribute PRs using an online code editor 

(e.g. StackBlitz, CodeSpaces CodeSandbox, Gitpod)

You can instead open a fork in an online IDE (integrated development environment) for a code editor and live preview without needing to set up any local development environment. Each online IDE has its own shortcut URL for opening an existing repository, and will allow you to create pull requests after you have made changes.

See specific instructions for opening an existing repository in [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/docs/importing#import-from-github), [StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/docs/platform/importing-projects/#import-from-github), and [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/getting-started#start-your-first-workspace) on their respective websites.

Note that CodeSandbox and StackBlitz provide Astro syntax highlighting in their custom code editors, while Gitpod supports the full [Astro VSCode extension](https://docs.astro.build/en/editor-setup/#vs-code).

## Contribute PRs by Developing Locally

To begin developing locally, checkout this project from your machine.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:withastro/docs.git
```

You can install and run the project locally using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/). Head to [the pnpm installation guide](https://pnpm.io/installation) to get that set up. Then, run the following from your terminal:

```shell
pnpm install

pnpm start
```

If you’re copying these instructions, remember to [configure this project as a fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/configuring-a-remote-repository-for-a-fork).

```shell
git remote add upstream git@github.com:withastro/docs.git
```

At any point, create a branch for your contribution.
We are not strict about branch names.

```shell
git checkout -b add/partial-hydration-typo-fix
```

### Helpful information about Forks

On GitHub you’ll need a “fork” of this repository to work on. This is your own copy where you can make changes. [Read more about forks in GitHub’s docs](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/).

Not sure how to get started with GitHub, forks, pull requests, or want a quick refresher? You might want to check out this free video series:

[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

#### Creating a fork
To create your copy, click the <kbd>Fork</kbd> button at the top right of any page in this repository.

#### Maintaining a fork
When you first create your fork, it will be an exact copy of this repository. Over time, `withastro/docs` will change as the docs are updated, but your fork won’t automatically stay up-to-date. Here are some ways to keep your fork in sync with this repo.

##### Manually via the GitHub UI
1. Navigate to your fork on GitHub
2. Click <kbd>Sync fork</kbd> and then <kbd>Update branch</kbd>

##### Manually from the command line
In the terminal on your computer:
1. Make sure you’re on the main branch: `git checkout main`
2. Fetch and merge updates: `git pull upstream main`
3. Push the updates back to your fork on GitHub: `git push origin main`

##### Automatically with a GitHub app
1. Go to [the “Pull” GitHub app page](https://github.com/apps/pull)
2. Click <kbd>Install</kbd>
3. Follow the instructions to select your fork

## Pages generated from outside sources

Some of our English-language pages are generated from outside sources and maintained in another repo. Currently, these files are `configuration-reference.md`, all of our error messages, and all those under the `/integrations-guides/` directory.

:::note
All of these English generated pages in the docs repo will have a dev-only warning at the top and the `githubURL`frontmatter property. Please do look at the top of the file before you make changes and submit a pull request, as there are additional instructions there when necessary.

Translated pages are always edited directly in the docs repo.
:::

## Creating a pull request

1. Choose a title that is short, but descriptive of your change. If your change does **not** require translating or a similar update to the other language pages (e.g. fixing an English typo), please include `[i18nIgnore]` in your subject. If you are translating a non-English page, please indicate the language in the subject. For example, to propose an edit to a French page, include `i18n(fr)` in the PR title.

2. Choose and fill out the appropriate template. Be sure to include any useful information or extra content, such as a linked Issue.

3. Submit your changes for review.

Every pull request needs to be [reviewed by our contributors and approved by a maintainer](/first-time/6-pr-review-process/).

The docs site will be automatically updated whenever pull requests are merged.

Commit message:

added section on file location in the docs site

src/content/docs/first-time/5-larger-contributions.mdx, after:

---
title: Larger contributions with a fork
description: How to make larger contributions to Astro Docs with a fork of the project.
---

[Editing a single page on GitHub.com](/first-time/4-edit-single-page/) is convenient for small text changes, but does not allow you to see a live preview of the site while you are working. It also does not let you easily edit multiple files at once, such as a guide and a reference page or a sidebar entry.

## Contribute PRs using an online code editor 

(e.g. StackBlitz, CodeSpaces CodeSandbox, Gitpod)

You can instead open a fork in an online IDE (integrated development environment) for a code editor and live preview without needing to set up any local development environment. Each online IDE has its own shortcut URL for opening an existing repository, and will allow you to create pull requests after you have made changes.

See specific instructions for opening an existing repository in [CodeSandbox](https://codesandbox.io/docs/importing#import-from-github), [StackBlitz](https://developer.stackblitz.com/docs/platform/importing-projects/#import-from-github), and [Gitpod](https://www.gitpod.io/docs/getting-started#start-your-first-workspace) on their respective websites.

Note that CodeSandbox and StackBlitz provide Astro syntax highlighting in their custom code editors, while Gitpod supports the full [Astro VSCode extension](https://docs.astro.build/en/editor-setup/#vs-code).

## Contribute PRs by Developing Locally

To begin developing locally, checkout this project from your machine.

```shell
git clone git@github.com:withastro/docs.git
```

You can install and run the project locally using [pnpm](https://pnpm.io/). Head to [the pnpm installation guide](https://pnpm.io/installation) to get that set up. Then, run the following from your terminal:

```shell
pnpm install

pnpm start
```

If you’re copying these instructions, remember to [configure this project as a fork](https://docs.github.com/en/pull-requests/collaborating-with-pull-requests/working-with-forks/configuring-a-remote-repository-for-a-fork).

```shell
git remote add upstream git@github.com:withastro/docs.git
```

At any point, create a branch for your contribution.
We are not strict about branch names.

```shell
git checkout -b add/partial-hydration-typo-fix
```

### Helpful information about Forks

On GitHub you’ll need a “fork” of this repository to work on. This is your own copy where you can make changes. [Read more about forks in GitHub’s docs](https://guides.github.com/activities/forking/).

Not sure how to get started with GitHub, forks, pull requests, or want a quick refresher? You might want to check out this free video series:

[How to Contribute to an Open Source Project on GitHub](https://egghead.io/courses/how-to-contribute-to-an-open-source-project-on-github)

#### Creating a fork
To create your copy, click the <kbd>Fork</kbd> button at the top right of any page in this repository.

#### Maintaining a fork
When you first create your fork, it will be an exact copy of this repository. Over time, `withastro/docs` will change as the docs are updated, but your fork won’t automatically stay up-to-date. Here are some ways to keep your fork in sync with this repo.

##### Manually via the GitHub UI
1. Navigate to your fork on GitHub
2. Click <kbd>Sync fork</kbd> and then <kbd>Update branch</kbd>

##### Manually from the command line
In the terminal on your computer:
1. Make sure you’re on the main branch: `git checkout main`
2. Fetch and merge updates: `git pull upstream main`
3. Push the updates back to your fork on GitHub: `git push origin main`

##### Automatically with a GitHub app
1. Go to [the “Pull” GitHub app page](https://github.com/apps/pull)
2. Click <kbd>Install</kbd>
3. Follow the instructions to select your fork

## Page content source location

The English content of our website is written in **`.mdx` files located within `src/content/docs/en/`**. 

Please check the very top of the file as there may be additional instructions specific to that page! For example, the source content for that page may be [generated in a different file](#pages-generated-from-outside-sources) and you should not make a change directly to this file.

:::note[CHANGING EXISTING DOCUMENTATION]
All **changes to the documentation** (rewording existing documentation, adding new sections etc.) occur **in English** only, by modifying only **`.mdx` files located within `src/content/docs/en/`**. All new or changed content is approved in English first, and then is translated separately.
:::

By default, when you edit an English page, our Translation Tracker updates every other language with a "needs updating" status. Normally, this is what we want! If an explanation has changed, or a code sample has been updated, then the other languages should make the appropriate change, too.

However, if your change is an **English-only correction** (e.g. a typo fix to an English word) that does not otherwise alter the documentation, then please be sure to title your pull request appropriately when you [create a pull request](#creating-a-pull-request).

Documentation for every other language is located in a separate folder within `src/content/docs/`. The page content of these documents is never generated from outside sources, and is always changed in these files. To fix a small error in these pages, use the same procedure as editing an English page. However, always keep the content an exact representation of the English docs. Do not revise wording or sections here, and only match the English content.

If editing a translated page makes you notice a problem with the current English documentation, or you would like to suggest an improvement, please [file an issue](/first-time/3-file-an-issue/) and let us know! Our translators often spot things that could be better in our docs, and we appreciate the help!

See our [i18n guide for translators](/guides/i18n/) for more information about translating the docs!


## Pages generated from outside sources

Some of our English-language pages are generated from outside sources and maintained in another repo. Currently, these files are `configuration-reference.md`, all of our error messages, and all those under the `/integrations-guides/` directory.

:::note
All of these English generated pages in the docs repo will have a dev-only warning at the top and the `githubURL`frontmatter property. Please do look at the top of the file before you make changes and submit a pull request, as there are additional instructions there when necessary.

Translated pages are always edited directly in the docs repo.
:::

## Creating a pull request

1. Choose a title that is short, but descriptive of your change. If your change does **not** require translating or a similar update to the other language pages (e.g. fixing an English typo), please include `[i18nIgnore]` in your subject. If you are translating a non-English page, please indicate the language in the subject. For example, to propose an edit to a French page, include `i18n(fr)` in the PR title.

2. Choose and fill out the appropriate template. Be sure to include any useful information or extra content, such as a linked Issue.

3. Submit your changes for review.

Every pull request needs to be [reviewed by our contributors and approved by a maintainer](/first-time/6-pr-review-process/).

The docs site will be automatically updated whenever pull requests are merged.
