src/content/docs/index.mdx, before:

---
title: Astro Docs Docs (AD²)
description: Documentation for Contributing to Astro Docs
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: Learn how to contribute to Astro's documentation!
  image:
    file: ../../assets/houston_researcher.webp
  actions:
    - text: Contributor Guides
      link: /welcome/
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary
    - text: Read the Astro docs
      link: https://docs.astro.build
      icon: external
editUrl: false
---

import { Card, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Next steps

<CardGrid stagger>
	<Card title="Writing and Style Guides" icon="pencil">
		Learn how to write text and code for Astro docs.
	</Card>
	<Card title="i18n and Translator guides" icon="add-document">
		Add contributions to Astro docs in other languages.
	</Card>
	<Card title="Maintainer and Reviewer Guides" icon="setting">
		Learn how to manage PRs in the Astro docs repo as a maintainer or reviewer.
	</Card>
	<Card title="Read the docs" icon="open-book">
		Visit [Astro Docs](https://docs.astro.build/) to learn about Astro!
	</Card>
</CardGrid>

Commit message:

Add a Hacktoberfest banner in the homepage

src/content/docs/index.mdx, after:

---
title: Astro Docs Docs (AD²)
description: Documentation for Contributing to Astro Docs
template: splash
hero:
  tagline: Learn how to contribute to Astro's documentation!
  image:
    file: ../../assets/houston_researcher.webp
  actions:
    - text: Contributor Guides
      link: /welcome/
      icon: right-arrow
      variant: primary
    - text: Read the Astro docs
      link: https://docs.astro.build
      icon: external
banner:
  content: |
    <a href="/guides/hacktoberfest/">Come participate in this year's Hacktoberfest!</a>
editUrl: false
---

import { Card, CardGrid } from '@astrojs/starlight/components';

## Next steps

<CardGrid stagger>
	<Card title="Writing and Style Guides" icon="pencil">
		Learn how to write text and code for Astro docs.
	</Card>
	<Card title="i18n and Translator guides" icon="add-document">
		Add contributions to Astro docs in other languages.
	</Card>
	<Card title="Maintainer and Reviewer Guides" icon="setting">
		Learn how to manage PRs in the Astro docs repo as a maintainer or reviewer.
	</Card>
	<Card title="Read the docs" icon="open-book">
		Visit [Astro Docs](https://docs.astro.build/) to learn about Astro!
	</Card>
</CardGrid>
